# Shuttle Admin App

## Project Overview

The OCCT Shuttle Status Update Application simplifies the process of updating shuttle statuses for OCCT (Off Campus College Transport), the shuttle service for Binghamton University. It provides features like real-time service updates, reporting, resource access, image uploads, theme customization, and user management.

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**:

  - Node.js and Express.js
  - Sequelize ORM for database management
  - PostgreSQL as the database
  - Socket.io for real-time updates

- **Frontend**:

  - React with Chakra UI for the user interface

- **Deployment**:

  - Heroku for hosting the application

- **Additional Libraries**:
  - AWS SDK for handling S3 image uploads
  - Multer for file uploads
  - Nodemailer for email functionality
  - Concurrently for running multiple scripts
  - Other dependencies listed in `package.json`

## File Structure

- `/api`: Backend code, including routes, models, and controllers.
- `/client`: Frontend React application.
- `/node_modules`: Dependencies installed by npm.
- `/.gitignore`: Configuration file to specify files/folders to be ignored by Git.
- `/package-lock.json`: Generated by npm to lock dependencies to specific versions.
- `/Procfile`: Heroku-specific configuration file.
- `/README.md`: This README file.

## Installation and Usage

To install and run the OCCT Shuttle Status Update Application locally:

1. Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/khalil0525/shuttle-status-app.git
cd shuttle-status-app

2. Install backend dependencies:

cd api
npm install

3. Install frontend dependencies:

cd ../client
npm install

4. Create a PostgreSQL database and configure the `.env` file in the `/api` directory with your database connection details and other environment variables.

5. Run migrations and seed the database:
   cd api
   npm run sequelize db:migrate
   npm run sequelize db:seed:all

6. Start both the backend and frontend development servers:
   npm run dev

Access the application in your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Models and Routes

Key backend models include:

- `User`: Represents application users with various permissions.
- `Route`: Defines shuttle routes.
- `ServiceUpdate`: Stores real-time service updates related to specific routes.
- `Invite`: Manages user invitations.
- `FullRun`: Contains data related to full shuttle runs.
- `DispatchReport`: Records incident reports.
- `Resource`: Stores resources similar to FAQ items.
- `ResourceAttachment`: Manages attachments for resources.
- `Permission`: Defines user permissions.
- `Image`: Manages images, including login page backgrounds.
- `TrainerResource`: Stores trainer resources.
- `TrainerResourceAttachment`: Manages attachments for trainer resources.
- `DispatchRouteLog`: Contains comprehensive logs for routes.

API routes are organized to handle different parts of the application, including reports, routes, service updates, resources, images, and more.

## Environment Variables

In the root directory, use the following command to create a `.env` file from the `.env.example` file in the `/api` directory:

cp ./api/.env.example ./api/.env

After executing this command, edit the newly created `/api/.env` file to include your specific environment variable values.

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome! Open an issue or submit a pull request for suggestions, improvements, or bug fixes. Discuss major changes in an issue first.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
